COMBINED MEDICAL SERVICES EXAM – 22.07.2018

Medical Sciences Paper I

1.
Most common valve involved in Carcinoid syndrome is:
(a) Mitral valve
(b) Tricuspid valve
(c) Aortic valve
(d) Pulmonary valve
2.
A 70 year old man reports to the emergency with acute chest pain. ECG shows
inferior wall Myocardial Infarction (MI). He has recently been discharged 7 days back
following thrombolysis with streptokinase for Acute Anterior wall MI. What will be
the appropriate management?
(a) Aspirin, Sublingual nitroglycerin, Clopidogrel, Primary PCI
(b) Aspirin, Sublingual nitroglycerin, Clopidogrel, Streptokinase
(c) Aspirin, Sublingual nitroglycerin, Clopidogrel, Heparin
(d) Aspirin, Sublingual nitroglycerin, Clopidogrel, Beta blockers
3.
The presence of a fusion beat on an Electrocardiogram is diagnostic of:
(a) Atrial Fibrillation
(b) Ventricular Tachycardia
(c) Supraventricular Tachycardia
(d) Sinus Bradycardia
4.
A 64 year old man presents with chest pain of 24 hours duration. His ECG reveals ST
elevation, Anterior Wall Myocardial Infarction. The preferred treatment modality for
him is:
(a) Primary percutaneous coronary intervention
(b) Thrombolysis with Alteplase
(c) Thrombolysis with Streptokinase
(d) Nitroglycerin infusion , Aspirin and Beta blockers
5.
The preferred anti hypertensive drug for a 74 year old male with benign prostatic
hypertrophy is:
(a) Amlodepine
(b) Hydrochlorothiazide
(c) Prazosin
(d) Atenolol
6.
The treatment of choice for a 32 year old male patient of severe mitral stenosis
(Rheumatic) with thickened and calcified valves on echocardiography is:
(a) Balloon valvuloplasty
(b) Mitral valve replacement
(c) Medical management only
(d) Mitral valvotomy
7.
Which one of the following is an example of Type-IV respiratory failure?
(a) Bronchial asthma
(b) Pulmonary embolism
(c) COPD
(d) Shock
8.
All of the following are seen in Polyarteritis Nodosa EXCEPT:
(a) Glomerulonephritis
(b) Peripheral Neuropathy
(c) Bowel Infarction
(d) Pericarditis
9.
All of the following are the pointers to organic cause of psychiatric disease EXCEPT:
(a) Late age of onset of psychiatric illness
(b) No previous history of psychiatric illness
(c) Family history of psychiatric illness
(d) No apparent psychological precipitant
10.
All of the following are Long Acting Beta Agonists (LABA) EXCEPT:
(a) Levo salbutamol
(b) Salmeterol
(c) Formoterol
(d) Indacaterol
